# Guerrilla Science Application 2018
*Sofa Suazo & Guillermo Montecinos*

## 1. Tell us about your proposed project including the area(s) of science you will feature.

Our project is mainly –but not limited to– an interactive installation where participants have a chance to have a synesthetic experience involving colors, sound, movement and a wide range of different objects and materialities. The installation consists of a set of “creative science stations” where participants have at their disposal a set of sensorially appealing tools which they can play with to create anything they like, from painting or sculpture-like creations, to the most randomness of mess. The idea is that the configuration of these stations will be based on easy and practicals DIY science experiments (like these examples here) so that users will be implicitly be experimenting with the laws of physics and chemistry. No matter what ends up being the result of the participant’s use of the “creative science stations”, the whole interaction will be recorded and that live footage will become a construction tool for the next step in our installation: the creation of collaborative visuals and music. All the footage collected from the creative stations will be processed by a music and multimedia development software that will allow us to merge all the participants creation into one visual creation, and also, to make this visual collection have a sound. The result is then a collaborative audiovisual piece that is being fed in real time by the participants creative and playful contribution. 
To make this possible, we will be making use of different branches of science and technology. Firstly, the content of “creative science stations” will be  a real time demonstration of the basic laws of physics and chemistry.  Secondly, to make a reading of the result of these stations we will be making use of physical computing, using cameras and spatial sensors to capture the shapes, colors and kinetic information given by the experimental process of the participants. Thirdly, the information gathered will be processed by a computer vision algorithm, which will allow the machine to interpret the images captured by the sensors. Computer vision (CV) is a branch of the computer science which pursues to automate tasks that the visual human system can do. The output data of the CV algorithm will be used as an input for the sound and visuals generation algorithms programmed in Max/Msp/Jitter, that will map pixels information into sound using statistic-based logic. This audio output will be sent out using communication protocols as midi and/or osc to control oscillators, filters and synthesizers, whilst the generated visuals will be screened or projected.
The development of this project will require the acquisition of some technical equipment, as cameras and kinect sensors for measuring the color and texture of the experimental mixes performed by the participants, as well as projectors to screen the visual results of this experimentation. The sound generated by the exploration must be played, but is assumed that sound equipment will be provided by the organization.<br>
Budget:
2 Xbox One Kinect Sensors						$200.00
2 ViewSonic PG603X 3600-Lumen XGA DLP Projectors	$1,000.00
Installation’s structures costs						$800.00
Max/Msp Full Licence							$400.00
3 Nikon D7000 DSLR Camera	(for 3 stations)			$2,100.00
1 iPad										$500.00
General Budget								$5,000.00<br>
As this project will be documented by Guerrilla Science and by us, it is relevant to get written permission from the participants to use their photographic and video image for further promotion or presentation of our work, as well as authorization from Life in a Bottle Festival to use their logo and make video recording inside the festival space.

## 3. What is your approach to collaboration with someone outside your field? If you have any preselected partners, or requests for matching, also include them here. 
As this project pursues to trigger a multi-sensorial catharsis in the participants by their own practical and organic exploration, it is fundamental to design the experience from a multidisciplinary collaboration which include an artistic approach as well as a technological approach. The design of a sensorial experience demands a broad experience in the fields of arts and aesthetics, particularly in the work with color, textures and shapes, because this experience is thought as a non standard experimentation where participants –who are not expected to have an artistic background– are going to deal with rare materials as diverse as sand, play dough and tints, in order to create sounds. The experimenting playground where the participants will create and its recording and processing must be supported by a technological system that will allow to capture the information generated by the participants, and converted to data that will be used as a input to sound and video generation systems.
That is why our team is mixed by Sofía Suazo, a Chilean artis who is currently enrolled at the Interactive Telecommunication Program graduate program at New York University, who will develop the experiential part of this project, and by Guillermo Montecinos, a Chilean engineer, musician and educator, graduated from the School for Poetic Computation, who will design the technical support. We are both open to collaborate with more people from different fields and background that could help us make the installation a success. 


## 4. Please provide a short biography about yourself with your area of expertise and any institutional affiliations.
Sofía Suazo is a chilean New York based artist, currently enrolled at the Interactive Telecommunications Program (ITP) graduate program of New York University (Tisch School of the Arts). Sofía’s areas of expertise are photography and aesthetics, but her work has also involved experimentation with video, illustration, embroidery, and lately, with a wide branch of new media technology, including physical computing and different creative coding languages like processing and python. Sofía is mainly interested in the social and cultural role of media, and the political and historical instrumentalization of artistic techniques.  

Guillermo Montecinos is a Santiago de Chile based musician, electrical engineer (MSc) and educator. His work is focused in building sound experiences where the audience is invited to feel sensations evoked by the music. In 2017 Guillermo co-founded a coding school in Chile called Coded Escuela, focused on spreading art-oriented Free, Libre, Open-Source Software (FLOSS) and producing educational resources in Spanish for tools such as p5.js, Processing and Python. Guillermo is an advocate for FLOSS must be accessible for everyone, and language should not be a limitation for learning how to code.

## 5. Briefly describe your project goals and ways you might measure the success of your work.
Our project aims to bring art and art making closer and approachable to a non-academic audience, by the construction of an experimental environment where people can play with sound and visuals and immerse themselves in a new multi-sensorial experience. 

For that purpose, our project seeks to:
Make the participants experiment a sensorial catharsis led by the self exploration of colors, shapes and textures, and the generation of sonic and visual stimuli by the installation itself,
allow the participants to establish a conversation between the material world and the sonic and visual world created from this experimentation, as well as a conversation between them and the people and the space around them, and
bring media art and interactive installations closer to the audience by setting a playground that encourages a non formal creative and artistic exploration, and where the ways of expression of the creativity are friendly with simple movements of the human body.

In order to measure the success of this project, participants’ feedback will be gathered using an interactive platform as an iPad. Also, an effective experimentation time index will be developed, which will measure the total time that people will be playing in the experimental playground.


